---
layout: post
title:      "Why I Began my Coding Journey"
date:       2018-06-04 02:16:56 +0000
permalink:  why_i_began_my_coding_journey
---

I've always enjoyed stories, no matter what kind. Whether the medium be a book, a movie, an anime, or just another person recalling a hilarious anecdote, I always enjoy listening to a story. I believe that everyone is the hero of their own story, no matter how big or small. So I guess it's time for me to tell my story of how I started on this path to becoming a programmer.

For most of my life, I had wanted to become a physician. I was given much praise during middle and high school for being one of the smartest students, and many of my peers and teachers suggested I become a doctor. So then I looked into the career path, and once I had started college, I set out to do all the typical premed activities - shadowing, volunteering, research, leadership, etc. It was a lot of difficult work, and there were many times that I questioned if I really wanted to pursue this career path. After I graduated, I took a gap year to work as a medical scribe in the Emergency Department at a local hospital to see if I really wanted to continue becoming a doctor. It was during that year that I finally realized that medicine was not the best fit for me. Working as a scribe meant long, grueling hours, and most of the physicians I worked with seemed jaded or burnt out. They did not actively encourage me to become a doctor, and I don't fault them for that. It's a difficult career path to follow, and I just felt too burnt out to continue. So I gave up my dream of becoming a doctor and did not apply to medical schools after my year of being a scribe.

After that year, I felt a little lost. Everything that I did in my life up to that point was to help me become a better candidate for applying to medical schools. But now, I was no longer pursuing that career choice, and I did not know what to do with my life. For a couple years, I just stayed at home with my parents and helped them out at their small businesses. For awhile, I felt content just working a mostly menial job and hanging out with friends on the weekends. However, I eventually got restless and bored with not doing something that required me to be actively learning new skills. So I began to research what kind of career would allow me to learn new things every day as well as solve problems, which I had enjoyed doing in college more than just memorizing - another reason why I strayed away from medicine. I saw that other than the healthcare industry, the technology sector was the fastest growing industry in terms of job growth.

At first, I thought that pursuing a career in tech was not feasible for me because I believed that one needed a computer science degree to get any kind of tech job. But then I learned that coding bootcamps existed, and I did a lot of research on them. I was pleasantly surprised to learn that many of these coding bootcamps were successful in getting their graduates careers in tech, with or without any kind of college degree! It was at this moment that I decided I wanted to pursue a career in tech, so I began to learn coding on my own using many different free online resources. After about 2 months of self-study, I researched many different coding bootcamps. I felt overwhelmed by how many great options there were, so I decided to use Switchup's matching algorithm to see which coding bootcamp they recommended would be the best fit for me. Switchup recommended Flatiron School, so I looked into Flatiron's programs. I loved that they had a free online bootcamp prep and a totally affordable online web developer program. So I dove right into the bootcamp prep and applied to the Online Web Developer program at Flatiron.

And here's where I am today! A student of Flatiron's Online Web Developer Program who loves learning something new every day and using that knowledge to solve each and every lab. It's been a lot of hard, sometimes frustrating work, but I am confident that I will be successful in completing this program and becoming a full stack developer. Stay tuned for more updates on my story!


